# Systolic-Blood-Pressure-Study
Simple Linear Regressions Project 
A small sample of SBP (Systolic Blood Pressure) measurements was collected among 60 Hispanics (30 males and 30 females) between 18 and 65, and 60 Caucasians (30 males and 30 females) between 18 and 65 out of an audience of 222. Statistical Analysis Systems (SAS) programming was used to organize, sort, and perform all statistical analyses describing the dependent variable (SBP levels) based on the independent variables (age, gender, weight, height, and ethnicity). Descriptive analysis was used to compare means and describe standard deviations between independent and dependent variables. Simple linear regressions were used to perform ANOVA’s, parameter estimations, and calculate the coefficient of determination (R-squared). The model selection method was used to identify the best model. The best model includes residual analysis, examining leverages for each volunteer. An examination of Cook’s D was used to identify potential influential observations.  Normality assumption was used by constructing QQ plots and testing the hypothesis (whether the averages were the same or different). Correlations among continuous independent variables were evaluated, and variance inflation factors were examined. The Least Squares Means (LSM) method, known as estimated means, was used to compare the categorical independent variables, gender and ethnicity, first females to males, then Hispanics to Caucasians (main effects). Interactions were tested between the gender and ethnicity with the levels: Hispanic females, Caucasian females, Hispanic males, and Caucasian males to check for any significant differences between them. Lastly, Tukey’s pairwise method was used to check which LSM levels differed (if there were differences).
